FIX_GRANULAR_ANALYSIS.md, before:

# 🔧 Fix Granular Analysis System

## 🎯 **Root Cause Analysis**

The granular analysis system is not working because:

1. **Client calling wrong function**: Client code is calling `compute-workout-summary` (404 errors) instead of `compute-workout-analysis`
2. **Empty planned workout intervals**: The planned workout has `intervals: []` (empty array), so granular analysis doesn't run
3. **Missing database columns**: Need `workout_analysis` and `calculated_metrics` columns

## ✅ **Fixes Applied**

### 1. **Client Code Fixed** ✅
- Updated `UnifiedWorkoutView.tsx` to call `compute-workout-analysis` instead of `compute-workout-summary`
- Updated `useWorkouts.ts` to call `compute-workout-analysis` instead of `compute-workout-summary`

### 2. **Database Schema** ✅
- User confirmed they added `workout_analysis` and `calculated_metrics` columns

### 3. **Edge Functions** ✅
- All functions are deployed and active:
  - `compute-workout-analysis` (includes granular analysis)
  - `analyze-running-workout` 
  - `calculate-workout-metrics`
  - `analyze-workout` (master orchestrator)

## 🔧 **Remaining Fixes Needed**

### 1. **Update Planned Workout Intervals** ⚠️
The planned workout `09f9a709-b6aa-49c4-8692-3eb1be3c501d` has empty intervals:

```sql
-- Run this SQL to fix the planned workout
UPDATE planned_workouts 
SET intervals = '[
  {
    "id": "long-run-1",
    "time": "90:00",
    "effortLabel": "Long Run - Steady Pace",
    "bpmTarget": "140-160",
    "rpeTarget": "6-7",
    "description": "90 minute steady long run at conversational pace"
  }
]'::jsonb
WHERE id = '09f9a709-b6aa-49c4-8692-3eb1be3c501d';
```

### 2. **Test the System** ⚠️
After updating the planned workout:
1. Refresh the app
2. Go to the Summary tab of the running workout
3. Verify adherence percentage and execution grade are displayed
4. Go to Context tab and verify insights are shown

## 🎯 **Expected Results**

### **Summary Screen**
- Shows adherence percentage (e.g., "85% Execution")
- Shows execution grade (e.g., "B Grade")
- Shows pace consistency metrics

### **Context Screen**
- Shows detailed insights about pace consistency
- Shows long run specific analysis (negative splits, pace drift)
- Shows execution grade and primary issues/strengths

## 🧪 **Testing Commands**

```bash
# Test the planned workout data
node test-granular-analysis.mjs

# Test the analysis debug
node test-analysis-debug.mjs
```

## 📊 **System Architecture**

```
Raw Sensor Data → compute-workout-analysis → workouts.computed + workouts.workout_analysis
                                                      ↓
Client (Summary/Context) ← workouts.workout_analysis (adherence_percentage, execution_grade)
```

## 🎯 **Next Steps**

1. **Run the SQL script** to update planned workout intervals
2. **Test the system** by refreshing the app and checking both screens
3. **Verify granular analysis** is working with proper adherence data
4. **Clean up test files** once confirmed working

The system is ready - just needs the planned workout data fixed! 🚀

Commit message:

feat: implement running analysis with token parser
- Add running token parser to convert steps_preset to target ranges
- Update compute-workout-analysis to use steps_preset instead of intervals
- Support warmup, intervals, tempo, long runs, and easy runs
- Maintain smart server, dumb client architecture
- Add fallback to intervals structure for backward compatibility
- Deploy updated edge function with token parsing capabilities

FIX_GRANULAR_ANALYSIS.md, after:

# 🔧 Fix Granular Analysis System

## 🎯 **Root Cause Analysis**

The granular analysis system is not working because:

1. **Client calling wrong function**: Client code is calling `compute-workout-summary` (404 errors) instead of `compute-workout-analysis`
2. **Empty planned workout intervals**: The planned workout has `intervals: []` (empty array), so granular analysis doesn't run
3. **Missing database columns**: Need `workout_analysis` and `calculated_metrics` columns

## ✅ **Fixes Applied**

### 1. **Client Code Fixed** ✅
- Updated `UnifiedWorkoutView.tsx` to call `compute-workout-analysis` instead of `compute-workout-summary`
- Updated `useWorkouts.ts` to call `compute-workout-analysis` instead of `compute-workout-summary`

### 2. **Database Schema** ✅
- User confirmed they added `workout_analysis` and `calculated_metrics` columns

### 3. **Edge Functions** ✅
- All functions are deployed and active:
  - `compute-workout-analysis` (includes granular analysis)
  - `analyze-running-workout` 
  - `calculate-workout-metrics`
  - `analyze-workout` (master orchestrator)

## 🔧 **Remaining Fixes Needed**

### 1. **Update Planned Workout Intervals** ⚠️
The planned workout `09f9a709-b6aa-49c4-8692-3eb1be3c501d` has empty intervals:

**Run this SQL script:**
```bash
# Execute the SQL script to fix the planned workout
psql -f update-planned-workout.sql
```

**Or run this SQL directly:**
```sql
UPDATE planned_workouts 
SET intervals = '[
  {
    "id": "long-run-1",
    "time": "90:00",
    "effortLabel": "Long Run - Steady Pace",
    "bpmTarget": "140-160",
    "rpeTarget": "6-7",
    "description": "90 minute steady long run at conversational pace"
  }
]'::jsonb
WHERE id = '09f9a709-b6aa-49c4-8692-3eb1be3c501d';
```

### 2. **Test the System** ⚠️
After updating the planned workout:
1. Refresh the app
2. Go to the Summary tab of the running workout
3. Verify adherence percentage and execution grade are displayed
4. Go to Context tab and verify insights are shown

## 🎯 **Expected Results**

### **Summary Screen**
- Shows adherence percentage (e.g., "85% Execution")
- Shows execution grade (e.g., "B Grade")
- Shows pace consistency metrics

### **Context Screen**
- Shows detailed insights about pace consistency
- Shows long run specific analysis (negative splits, pace drift)
- Shows execution grade and primary issues/strengths

## 🧪 **Testing Commands**

```bash
# Test the planned workout data
node test-granular-analysis.mjs

# Test the analysis debug
node test-analysis-debug.mjs
```

## 📊 **System Architecture**

```
Raw Sensor Data → compute-workout-analysis → workouts.computed + workouts.workout_analysis
                                                      ↓
Client (Summary/Context) ← workouts.workout_analysis (adherence_percentage, execution_grade)
```

## 🎯 **Next Steps**

1. **Run the SQL script** to update planned workout intervals
2. **Test the system** by refreshing the app and checking both screens
3. **Verify granular analysis** is working with proper adherence data
4. **Clean up test files** once confirmed working

The system is ready - just needs the planned workout data fixed! 🚀
